# Tennis-Money-Predictor
Introduction

In this report, we are working on the data of Top 500 tennis players worldwide. The players win Prize Money through tournaments (Hadlich 2020). We gathered our data from the webpage Ultimate Tennis Statistics. This webpage is the ultimate men's tennis statistics destination for the die-hard tennis fans. They provided information about latest or historical results, in-match statistics, records or all-time greats comparisons, and Elo ratings or tournament forecasts. In the data set Player Stats for Top 500 Players, we have lots of parameters including their physical information, game information and their social media contacts. Within these parameters, the focused data set contains player information on: Age of the players, Prize Money made, Countries of the players, Current rank of the players, Best rank of the players and the number of Seasons the players have participated. And specifically, our focused predictors are the Prize Money made and Seasons played.

For this project, we are trying to answer the question: Is Prize Money won by the player correlated to the Seasons played? How are they related?

Below is our redone exploratory analysis. We read in and clean our data. Splices of the unclean and final clean data are shown. Following cleaning our data, we use ggpairs to compare variables to see which ones have better relationships. We create a visual analysis of the top two variable pairs to see the relationships up close and then pick the graph with the stronger relationship to run our regression on.

Discussion

In our analysis, we were able to find a strong correlation between Age and Seasons Played as well as Seasons Played and Prize Money using ggpairs. It’s evident to see that as age increases so do the number of seasons played and with more seasons played the more money is earned. Using the testing data, we then used k-regression analysis on Seasons Played and Prize Money in order to predict how the increasing seasons played affect how much money a tennis player can win. We picked seasons versus money because the correlation number was higher than for age of tennis player and seasons played. The plot for the regression shows that there’s a steady increase of winnings as the number of seasons played goes up, however, there are some outliers that are present such as a player playing ~14 seasons whilst winning nothing. Regardless, we can say that there is a positive correlation between the number of seasons and prize money earned.

We expected this trend to occur because as the seasons increase, so does the experience tennis players gain and as a result, their earnings go up. The years of experience add to the winnings because higher-ranked competitions offer a higher reward. “Men's competitions on the USTA futures pro circuit, aimed at top juniors and college players, offer $15,000 - \125,000. For qualifiers for the U.S. Open – essentially the top 100 players in the world – they can take home $50,000 just for their first event.” (Thompson, 2018).

These findings add to the conclusion that the more you play the more you earn, which is an obvious note to point out because experience is needed to improve your skills. It’s a good fact to remind younger generations of tennis players of, as a lot of people assume that natural talent leads to earnings instead of hard work with trials and tribulations. Novak Djokovic is the number one ranked tennis player by the Association of Tennis Players (ATP) as well as the top earner but he also has played 126 finals. Acknowledging that time is needed to succeed is an impactful lesson for many young professionals to learn.

The future questions that our analysis could lead to are: What other factors contribute to seasons played that can affect total prize money earned? With the outliers, how do their experience and lack of earnings affect the conclusion that playing more matches earns you more? What variables can affect a player’s ability to play more matches such as sponsorships or training opportunities given? How can we remove outliers to make the regression perform better?
